# Face-Recognition-SRC

This repository contains my implementation of Sparse Representation based Classification (SRC), a sparse coding algorithm widely used in many classification and pattern recognition tasks. The algorithm is tested on the publicly available 'Labeled Faces in the Wild' (LFW) dataset - a challenging dataset often used to study the problem of unconstrained face recognition because it exhibits great variations in pose, and changes in illumination or occlusion.

For this project, I chose 19 subjects from the database, each having 35 images, and randomly selected 20 for training and the remaining 15 for testing. Faces were detected from all the images using the Viola-Jones detector and cropped to a size of 60x80 pixels.

SRC was conducted with two sets of features: down-sampled images and eigenfaces. For the latter, eigenfaces were constructed from the pool of training images and both training and testing sets were projected on different number of eigenfaces to compute features of different sizes. The results on LFW database for both sets of features, followed by Sparse Representa- tion based Classification, for different dimensionalities of extracted features, corresponding to λ = 0.001, are given in the report. We can see that in all cases, eigenfaces give a much more discriminative set of features compared to merely down-sampling the images. Thus, contrary to the theory behind sparse representation, we can say that for in the presence of misalignments, occlusions and variations in pose and illumination, the choice of features is indeed critical even in the case where sparsity in the recognition problem is properly harnessed.
